docs/source/manual/discovery.rst, before:

=========
Discovery
=========

You can search your cloud infrastructure and find the resources you are looking for using Cloudkeepers powerful query language.

Cloudkeeper maintains its collected data in a graph database. This graph can be accessed via the query language.

.. hint::
  Sending a query in the :ref:`component-cksh` CLI is done by using the ``query`` command.

  ``query is(aws_account)``

Commands can be connected using a pipe to form complex and deep requests about resources, dependencies and connections in your infrastructure.

To learn about your new superpowers and use them in the best way, it is important to understand the data model and structure.


.. _graph_node:

Graph Node
==========
A graph node is a json document with a well defined structure and these top level properties:

::

    {
      "id": "xxx",
      "kinds": [ ... ],
      "reported": { ... },
      "desired": { ... },
      "metadata": { ... }
    }


Each graph node always has an ``id`` that is a unique id created by cloudkeeper as well as a ``kinds`` array containing the kind of the node including all it's parents kinds.

It also features three main sections: ``reported``, ``desired`` and ``metadata``.

You learn more about the structure and sections in our :ref:`graph_node_spotlight`.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   graph_node_spotlight


Available Commands
==================
In the :ref:`component-cksh` CLI you have have a couple of commands available that help you accessing the graph database.

Commands can also be chained by using ``|`` pipes - and not just the following commands!
Chaining is very powerful when used with other commands like ``count``.
We advise to use ``help`` in the :ref:`component-cksh` CLI to get more information about the commands.

query
-----

Using the ``query`` command, you access the root level of the node.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query reported.kind == aws_region``

  This will select all AWS regions

reported
--------

``reported`` will directly access the ``reported`` section of a graph_node.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``reported kind == aws_account``

  This will select all AWS accounts
  
  You can also use the command ``match`` as an abbreviation for ``reported``:

  ``match kind == aws_account``
  
desired
-------

``desired`` will directly access the ``desired`` section of a graph node.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``desired clean = true``
  
  This will select all graph nodes that are marked for cleanup

  You can also set properties in the ``desired`` section by using the ``set_desired`` command:

  ``set_desired clean = false``

  An example, selecting all graph nodes that are marked for cleanup and reversing this by chaining the two commands using a pipe:

  ``desired clean == true  | set_desired clean = false``

metadata
--------

``metadata`` will directely access the ``metadata`` section of a graph node.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``metadata ancestors.cloud.name == aws``

  This will select all graph nodes that are part of AWS clouds

  You can set metadata directly or add custom metadata by using the ``set_metadata`` command.

  ``match kind == aws_region | set_metadata foo = "bar"``

  This will set the field ``foo`` to the value ``bar`` inside the graph nodes ``metadata`` section.

The following sections always assume the global level using the ``query`` command.

Selecting Nodes
===============

Select nodes by kind
--------------------

Every node has a kind, which describes the structure of this node.
The model supports inheritance: every specific type is also an instance of
every more general type of this specific type. 

Take a graph node with a type of ``aws_ec2_instance`` as an example.
This type is subtype of the types: ``instance``, ``aws_resource`` and ``resource``.

In order to select nodes by a specific type, the query language supports the ``is(kind)``
function. The term ``is(instance)`` would select the ec2 instance above, but also all other
instances, e.g. google cloud instances.

The term ``is(aws_ec2_instance)`` would select only
ec2 instances from aws.

Since the ``is(kind)`` does not belong to any section, it can be used on every level.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_ec2_instance)``

  will select the same nodes as:

  ``metadata is(aws_ec2_instance)``



Select nodes by predicate
-------------------------

In order to filter for specific attributes of a node, it is possible to define predicates.
A predicate always has the syntax: ``<property_path> <operation> <value>``.


property_path
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``property_path`` is the path to the property in the json structure.
A nested attribute is accessed via the ``.``.

To access the name in the reported section, one would write ``reported.name``.

A property inside an array is accessed via ``[position]``.
So to access the first element of an array we can write ``[0]``.
If the position is not known or does not matter we can write ``[*]``.


operation
^^^^^^^^^

The ``operation`` is one of the following options:

| ``=`` or ``==`` : Property is equal to the provided value.
| ``!=`` : Property is not equal to the provided value.
| ``<=`` : Property is less than or equal to the provided value.
| ``>=`` : Property is greater than or equal to the provided value.
| ``>`` : Property is greater than the provided value.
| ``<`` : Property is less than the provided value.
| ``~`` or ``=~`` : Property conforms to the given regexp. Only applicable to strings.
| ``!~`` : Property is not conform to the given regexp. Only applicable to strings.
| ``in`` : Property is one of the following values. The value has to be an array.
| ``not in`` : Property is not one of the following values. The value has to be an array.

value
^^^^^

The ``value`` can be *any* json literal or *any* json conform value.


Example predicates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

  | ``reported.name == "sunset"`` 
  | Select all nodes where reported.name is *exactly* the string "sunset".

  | ``reported.name == sunset`` 
  | Same as above. *parentheses are optional as long as the string is not a number and does not have special characters*.
  
  | ``reported.instance_cores > 2``
  | Select nodes with more than 2 reported.instance_cores.

  | ``reported.name =~ "sun.*"``
  | Selects all nodes where reported.name adheres to the regular expression ``sun.*``.
  
  | ``reported.name in ["sunset", "sunrise"]``
  | Selects all nodes where reported.name is either sunset or sunrise.


Select nodes by id
------------------

Nodes can be selected by their id via the `id(xyz)` function.
This function can be used globally no matter which section is used.

Combine selections
------------------

All listed selections can be combined with ``and`` and ``or`` clauses.
In order to define precedence, it is possible to put brackets around terms. 

.. admonition:: Examples of combined terms

  - ``reported.name == sunset or reported.name == sunrise`` select nodes where reported.name is either sunrise or sunset.
  - ``is(aws_ec2_instance) and reported.name==sunrise`` select aws_ec2_instance nodes where reported.name is sunrise.
  - ``is(aws_ec2_instance) and (reported.instance_type=="m5a.large" or reported.instance_cores>2)`` select aws_ec2_instance nodes of specific type or more than 2 cores.


Graph Edges
***********

Nodes in the graph are connected via edges.
Edges in the graph are directed, starting from a node pointing to a node.
In order to traverse the graph in a meaningful way,
it is important to understand the structure of the graph.
The following model is only a subset of the graph model you will find in Cloudkeeper, but
illustrates nicely how we can walk edges in the graph.

.. image:: img/graph_query_graph_edges.png
  :alt: Edge Data Model

..
    @startuml
    skinparam backgroundColor transparent
    class aws_ec2_instance
    aws_account --> aws_region
    aws_region --> aws_iam_role
    aws_iam_role -> aws_iam_instance_profile
    aws_iam_instance_profile -> aws_ec2_instance
    aws_region --> aws_ec2_instance
    aws_region --> aws_alb_target_group
    aws_ec2_instance --> aws_alb_target_group
    aws_region -> aws_alb
    aws_region -> aws_iam_instance_profile
    aws_alb_target_group -> aws_alb
    @enduml


All of the resources in aws are placed in a region.
The region is one node in the graph.
If we want to know all resources in the graph we need to walk *outbound* (following the edges in direction of the arrow).
If we want to know the account of a specific resource, we need to walk *inbound* (following the edge in reverse direction of the arrow)
in the graph until we find an account.

Walking along edges
===================

Inbound and outbound
--------------------

``<--`` traverses the graph inbound, ``-->`` traverses the graph outbound.

.. image:: img/graph_query_inout.png

Select all direct nodes outbound of node
----------------------------------------

``-->`` traverse the graph outbound to the next level.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_account) -->``

  This will select all aws accounts and then traverse in the graph outbound.
  According to the model above, this query would return a list of all matching regions.

  .. image:: img/graph_query_outbound_example.png

Select all direct nodes inbound of node
---------------------------------------

``<--`` traverse the graph inbound to the next level

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_ec2_instance) <-- is(aws_region)``

  This will select all aws ec2 instances in the database and then traverse in the graph inbound.
  According to the model above, this query would return a list of all matching regions and instance profiles.
  For the sake of this example, we want to filter this list even further to only return the aws regions of the ec2 instances.

  .. image:: img/graph_query_inbound_example.png

Select nodes that include the current node
------------------------------------------

``-[0:1]->`` traverse the graph outbound starting from the current node **(0)** until the next level **(1)**.
The result will contain the current node plus all nodes one level outbound.
The same applies for inbound  with this statement ``<-[0:1]-``.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_region) -[0:1]->``

  This will return a list of all resources "under" a aws_region together with the matching aws_region.

  .. image:: img/graph_query_01.png

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_region) and reported.name==global <-[0:1]-``

  This will return a list of all aws_regions with name ``global`` together with all accounts.

Select nodes with a defined depth in the graph
----------------------------------------------

``-[start:until]->`` traverses the graph outbound starting from a user defined depth to a user defined depth.
The graph will be traversed from the current node according to this specification. All matching nodes will be returned.
The same applies for inbound traversals with ``<-[start:until]-``.

.. image:: img/graph_query_startuntil.png

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_alb_target_groups) <-[2:2]- is(aws_iam_instance_profile)``

  This query can answer the question: which instance profile is used for ec2 instances connected to an alb target group.
  It selects all aws_alb_target_groups and than traverses 2 levels inbound in the graph and filters for aws_iam_instance_profiles.
  The result is a list of aws_iam_instance_profiles.

Select nodes with an undefined depth in the graph
-------------------------------------------------

``-[start:]->`` traverses the graph outbound starting from a user defined depth to the leafs of the graph.
The graph will be traversed from the current node according to this specification. All matching nodes will be returned.
The same applies for inbound traversals with ``<-[start:]-``.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``is(aws_account) and reported.name==sunshine -[0:]->``

  This query will select the aws account with name ``sunshine`` and then select all nodes outbound to this node.
  This will select everything Cloudkeeper knows about nodes in this account.

Select inbound and outbound nodes
---------------------------------

``<-[start:until]->`` traverses the graph inbound and outbound starting from a user defined depth to a user defined depth.
The graph will be traversed from the current node according to this specification. All matching nodes will be returned.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query reported.name="sunset" and is(aws_account) <-[0:]->``

  This will select all nodes that are connected on any depth in any way to the AWS account with the name sunset.

Abbreviations
-------------

There are abbreviations for the most common BLAs.

.. admonition:: Example

  | ``-->`` and ``<--`` are abbreviations to ``-[1:1]->`` and ``<-[1:1]-``
  | ``query is(aws_account) -->`` is equivalent to ``is(aws_account) -[1:1]->``

  | ``<-->`` is an abbreviation for ``<-[1:1]->``
  | ``query is(aws_region) <-->`` is equivalent to ``is(aws_region) <-[1:1]->``

  | ``<-[x]-`` is an abbreviation for ``<-[x:x]-``
  | ``query is(aws_region) <-[3]->`` is equivalent to ``is(aws_region) <-[3:3]->``


Ensuring an existing defined graph structure
============================================

There are certain scenarios, where nodes need to be selected that have defined relationships and position in the
graph without selecting the related nodes.

Example: We want to select all ALB target groups where there is no EC2 instance using the ALB.

::

    query is(aws_alb_target_group) with (empty, <-- is(aws_ec2_instance))


The ``is(aws_alb_target_group)`` part selects all aws_alb_target_groups.
The ``with`` part filters this list by ensuring a defined graph structure.
The defined graph structure is described by ``(empty, <-- is(aws_ec2_instance))`` and says:

- traverse the graph inbound and filter all aws_ec2_instances
- count the resulting nodes
- select the aws_alb_target_group if there are no resulting nodes for this node
- the result will not have any data from the graph traversal of the with clause

The ``with`` clause allows for the following forms:

Ensure there is no matching node
--------------------------------

``<filter> with (empty, <navigation> [filter])``

The filter will select elements. With every element a graph traversal is done
following the navigation and filter in the with clause.
No result is allowed in order to select the node.

Ensure there is at least one matching node
------------------------------------------

``<filter> with (any, <navigation> [filter])``

Same as the ``empty`` case with the difference: the with clause needs to select
at least one matching node in order to select the filtered node.


Ensure there is a specific count of matching nodes
--------------------------------------------------

``<filter> with (count==3, <navigation> [filter])``

Same as the ``empty`` case with the difference: the with clause needs to select
the specified amount of matching nodes in order to select the filtered node.



Please note: the with clause can be nested.
Inside a with clause, you can use another with clause for nested expectations.
The outermost element is filtered only if the outermost with clause holds,
which includes that all inner with clauses have to match as well.

This is a powerful construct to define queries to match a defined graph structure or
to select nodes which are not in a predefined graph structure.

Commit message:

Added the "new official term": Traversal Selector
Added 'Traversal Selection Commands' section
Fixed some smaller nit picking details
Changed red color in the images to blue

docs/source/manual/discovery.rst, after:

=========
Discovery
=========

You can search your cloud infrastructure and find the resources you are looking for using Cloudkeepers powerful query language.

Cloudkeeper maintains its collected data in a graph database. This graph can be accessed via the query language.

.. hint::
  Sending a query in the :ref:`component-cksh` CLI is done by using the ``query`` command.

  ``query is(aws_account)``

Commands can be connected using a pipe to form complex and deep requests about resources, dependencies and connections in your infrastructure.

To learn about your new superpowers and use them in the best way, it is important to understand the data model and structure.


.. _graph_node:

Graph Node
==========
A graph node is a json document with a well defined structure and these top level properties:

::

    {
      "id": "xxx",
      "kinds": [ ... ],
      "reported": { ... },
      "desired": { ... },
      "metadata": { ... }
    }


Each graph node always has an ``id`` that is a unique id created by cloudkeeper as well as a ``kinds`` array containing the kind of the node including all it's parents kinds.

It also features three main sections: ``reported``, ``desired`` and ``metadata``.

You learn more about the structure and sections in our :ref:`graph_node_spotlight`.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   graph_node_spotlight


Available Commands
==================
In the :ref:`component-cksh` CLI you have have a couple of commands available that help you accessing the graph database.

Commands can also be chained by using ``|`` pipes - and not just the following commands!
Chaining is very powerful when used with other commands like ``count``.
We advise to use ``help`` in the :ref:`component-cksh` CLI to get more information about the commands.

query
-----

Using the ``query`` command, you access the root level of the node.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query reported.kind == aws_region``

  This will select all AWS regions

reported
--------

``reported`` will directly access the ``reported`` section of a graph_node.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``reported kind == aws_account``

  This will select all AWS accounts
  
  You can also use the command ``match`` as an abbreviation for ``reported``:

  ``match kind == aws_account``
  
desired
-------

``desired`` will directly access the ``desired`` section of a graph node.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``desired clean = true``
  
  This will select all graph nodes that are marked for cleanup

  You can also set properties in the ``desired`` section by using the ``set_desired`` command:

  ``set_desired clean = false``

  An example, selecting all graph nodes that are marked for cleanup and reversing this by chaining the two commands using a pipe:

  ``desired clean == true  | set_desired clean = false``

metadata
--------

``metadata`` will directely access the ``metadata`` section of a graph node.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``metadata ancestors.cloud.name == aws``

  This will select all graph nodes that are part of AWS clouds

  You can set metadata directly or add custom metadata by using the ``set_metadata`` command.

  ``match kind == aws_region | set_metadata foo = "bar"``

  This will set the field ``foo`` to the value ``bar`` inside the graph nodes ``metadata`` section.

The following sections always assume the global level using the ``query`` command.

Selecting Nodes
===============

Select nodes by kind
--------------------

Every node has a kind, which describes the structure of this node.
The model supports inheritance: every specific type is also an instance of
every more general type of this specific type. 

Take a graph node with a type of ``aws_ec2_instance`` as an example.
This type is subtype of the types: ``instance``, ``aws_resource`` and ``resource``.

In order to select nodes by a specific type, the query language supports the ``is(kind)``
function. The term ``is(instance)`` would select the ec2 instance above, but also all other
instances, e.g. google cloud instances.

The term ``is(aws_ec2_instance)`` would select only
ec2 instances from aws.

Since the ``is(kind)`` does not belong to any section, it can be used on every level.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_ec2_instance)``

  will select the same nodes as:

  ``metadata is(aws_ec2_instance)``



Select nodes by predicate
-------------------------

In order to filter for specific attributes of a node, it is possible to define predicates.
A predicate always has the syntax: ``<property_path> <operation> <value>``.


property_path
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``property_path`` is the path to the property in the json structure.
A nested attribute is accessed via the ``.``.

To access the name in the reported section, one would write ``reported.name``.

A property inside an array is accessed via ``[position]``.
So to access the first element of an array we can write ``[0]``.
If the position is not known or does not matter we can write ``[*]``.


operation
^^^^^^^^^

The ``operation`` is one of the following options:

| ``=`` or ``==`` : Property is equal to the provided value.
| ``!=`` : Property is not equal to the provided value.
| ``<=`` : Property is less than or equal to the provided value.
| ``>=`` : Property is greater than or equal to the provided value.
| ``>`` : Property is greater than the provided value.
| ``<`` : Property is less than the provided value.
| ``~`` or ``=~`` : Property conforms to the given regexp. Only applicable to strings.
| ``!~`` : Property is not conform to the given regexp. Only applicable to strings.
| ``in`` : Property is one of the following values. The value has to be an array.
| ``not in`` : Property is not one of the following values. The value has to be an array.

value
^^^^^

The ``value`` can be *any* json literal or *any* json conform value.


Example predicates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

  | ``reported.name == "sunset"`` 
  | Select all nodes where reported.name is *exactly* the string "sunset".

  | ``reported.name == sunset`` 
  | Same as above. *parentheses are optional as long as the string is not a number and does not have special characters*.
  
  | ``reported.instance_cores > 2``
  | Select nodes with more than 2 reported.instance_cores.

  | ``reported.name =~ "sun.*"``
  | Selects all nodes where reported.name adheres to the regular expression ``sun.*``.
  
  | ``reported.name in ["sunset", "sunrise"]``
  | Selects all nodes where reported.name is either sunset or sunrise.


Select nodes by id
------------------

Nodes can be selected by their id via the `id(xyz)` function.
This function can be used globally no matter which section is used.

Combine selections
------------------

All listed selections can be combined with ``and`` and ``or`` clauses.
In order to define precedence, it is possible to put brackets around terms. 

.. admonition:: Examples of combined terms

  | ``query reported.name == sunset or reported.name == sunrise`` : Select nodes where reported.name is either sunrise or sunset.
  | ``query is(aws_ec2_instance) and reported.name==sunrise`` : Select aws_ec2_instance nodes where reported.name is sunrise.
  | ``query is(aws_ec2_instance) and (reported.instance_type=="m5a.large" or reported.instance_cores>2)`` : Select aws_ec2_instance nodes of specific type or more than 2 cores.


Graph Edges
***********

Nodes in the graph are connected via edges.
Edges in the graph are directed, starting from a node pointing to a node.
In order to traverse the graph in a meaningful way,
it is important to understand the structure of the graph.
The following model is only a subset of the graph model you will find in Cloudkeeper, but
illustrates nicely how we can walk edges in the graph.

.. image:: img/graph_query_graph_edges.png
  :alt: Edge Data Model

..
    @startuml
    skinparam backgroundColor transparent
    class aws_ec2_instance
    aws_account --> aws_region
    aws_region --> aws_iam_role
    aws_iam_role -> aws_iam_instance_profile
    aws_iam_instance_profile -> aws_ec2_instance
    aws_region --> aws_ec2_instance
    aws_region --> aws_alb_target_group
    aws_ec2_instance --> aws_alb_target_group
    aws_region -> aws_alb
    aws_region -> aws_iam_instance_profile
    aws_alb_target_group -> aws_alb
    @enduml


All of the resources in aws are placed in a region.
The region is one node in the graph.
If we want to know all resources in the graph we need to walk *outbound* (following the edges in direction of the arrow).
If we want to know the account of a specific resource, we need to walk *inbound* (following the edge in reverse direction of the arrow)
in the graph until we find an account.

Traversal Selectors
===================

Inbound and outbound
--------------------

``<--`` traverses the graph inbound, ``-->`` traverses the graph outbound.

.. image:: img/graph_query_inout.png

Select all direct nodes outbound of node
----------------------------------------

``-->`` traverse the graph outbound to the next level.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_account) -->``

  This will select all aws accounts and then traverse in the graph outbound.
  According to the model above, this query would return a list of all matching regions.

  .. image:: img/graph_query_outbound_example.png

Select all direct nodes inbound of node
---------------------------------------

``<--`` traverse the graph inbound to the next level

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_ec2_instance) <-- is(aws_region)``

  This will select all aws ec2 instances in the database and then traverse in the graph inbound.
  According to the model above, this query would return a list of all matching regions and instance profiles.
  For the sake of this example, we want to filter this list even further to only return the aws regions of the ec2 instances.

  .. image:: img/graph_query_inbound_example.png

Select nodes that include the current node
------------------------------------------

``-[0:1]->`` traverse the graph outbound starting from the current node **(0)** until the next level **(1)**.
The result will contain the current node plus all nodes one level outbound.
The same applies for inbound  with this statement ``<-[0:1]-``.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_region) -[0:1]->``

  This will return a list of all resources "under" a aws_region together with the matching aws_region.

  .. image:: img/graph_query_01.png

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_region) and reported.name==global <-[0:1]-``

  This will return a list of all aws_regions with name ``global`` together with all accounts.

Select nodes with a defined depth in the graph
----------------------------------------------

``-[start:until]->`` traverses the graph outbound starting from a user defined depth to a user defined depth.
The graph will be traversed from the current node according to this specification. All matching nodes will be returned.
The same applies for inbound traversals with ``<-[start:until]-``.

.. image:: img/graph_query_startuntil.png

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_alb_target_groups) <-[2:2]- is(aws_iam_instance_profile)``

  This query can answer the question: which instance profile is used for ec2 instances connected to an alb target group.
  It selects all aws_alb_target_groups and than traverses 2 levels inbound in the graph and filters for aws_iam_instance_profiles.
  The result is a list of aws_iam_instance_profiles.

Select nodes with an undefined depth in the graph
-------------------------------------------------

``-[start:]->`` traverses the graph outbound starting from a user defined depth to the leafs of the graph.
The graph will be traversed from the current node according to this specification. All matching nodes will be returned.
The same applies for inbound traversals with ``<-[start:]-``.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query is(aws_account) and reported.name==sunshine -[0:]->``

  This query will select the aws account with name ``sunshine`` and then select all nodes outbound to this node.
  This will select everything Cloudkeeper knows about nodes in this account.

Select inbound and outbound nodes
---------------------------------

``<-[start:until]->`` traverses the graph inbound and outbound starting from a user defined depth to a user defined depth.
The graph will be traversed from the current node according to this specification. All matching nodes will be returned.

.. admonition:: Example

  ``query reported.name="sunset" and is(aws_account) <-[0:]->``

  This will select all nodes that are connected on any depth in any way to the AWS account with the name sunset.

Abbreviations
-------------

There are abbreviations for the most common traversal selectors.

.. admonition:: Example

  | ``-->`` and ``<--`` are abbreviations to ``-[1:1]->`` and ``<-[1:1]-``
  | ``query is(aws_account) -->`` is equivalent to ``query is(aws_account) -[1:1]->``

  | ``<-->`` is an abbreviation for ``<-[1:1]->``
  | ``query is(aws_region) <-->`` is equivalent to ``query is(aws_region) <-[1:1]->``

  | ``<-[x]-`` is an abbreviation for ``<-[x:x]-``
  | ``query is(aws_region) <-[3]->`` is equivalent to ``query is(aws_region) <-[3:3]->``


Traversal Selection Commands
----------------------------

There are also commands doing a traversal selection that you can chain using a pipe.

.. admonition:: Example

  | ``predecessors`` is a command being substituted for ``<--`` / ``<-[1:1]-``
  | ``query is(aws_region) | predecessors`` is equivalent to ``query is(aws_region) <--``

  | ``successors`` is a command being substituted for ``-->`` / ``-[1:1]->``
  | ``query is(aws_region) | successors`` is equivalent to ``query is(aws_region) -->``

  | ``ancestors`` is a command being substituted for ``<-[1:]-``
  | ``query is(aws_region) | ancestors`` is equivalent to ``query is(aws_region) <-[1:]-``

  | ``descendants`` is a command being substituted for ``-[1:]->``
  | ``query is(aws_region) | descendants`` is equivalent to ``query is(aws_region) -[1:]->``


Ensuring an existing defined graph structure
============================================

There are certain scenarios, where nodes need to be selected that have defined relationships and position in the
graph without selecting the related nodes.

Example: We want to select all ALB target groups where there is no EC2 instance using the ALB.

::

    query is(aws_alb_target_group) with (empty, <-- is(aws_ec2_instance))


The ``is(aws_alb_target_group)`` part selects all aws_alb_target_groups.
The ``with`` part filters this list by ensuring a defined graph structure.
The defined graph structure is described by ``(empty, <-- is(aws_ec2_instance))`` and says:

- traverse the graph inbound and filter all aws_ec2_instances
- count the resulting nodes
- select the aws_alb_target_group if there are no resulting nodes for this node
- the result will not have any data from the graph traversal of the with clause

The ``with`` clause allows for the following forms:

Ensure there is no matching node
--------------------------------

``<filter> with (empty, <navigation> [filter])``

The filter will select elements. With every element a graph traversal is done
following the navigation and filter in the with clause.
No result is allowed in order to select the node.

Ensure there is at least one matching node
------------------------------------------

``<filter> with (any, <navigation> [filter])``

Same as the ``empty`` case with the difference: the with clause needs to select
at least one matching node in order to select the filtered node.


Ensure there is a specific count of matching nodes
--------------------------------------------------

``<filter> with (count==3, <navigation> [filter])``

Same as the ``empty`` case with the difference: the with clause needs to select
the specified amount of matching nodes in order to select the filtered node.



Please note: the with clause can be nested.
Inside a with clause, you can use another with clause for nested expectations.
The outermost element is filtered only if the outermost with clause holds,
which includes that all inner with clauses have to match as well.

This is a powerful construct to define queries to match a defined graph structure or
to select nodes which are not in a predefined graph structure.
