plugins/slack/README.md, before:

# cloudkeeper-plugin-slack
Slack collector and notification plugin for Cloudkeeper

This plugin consists of two plugins.
A collector plugin that collects Slack users, groups and channels and adds them to the Cloudkeeper graph for analysis and usage by other plugins.
As well as a notification plugin that at the end of a cleanup run will notify Slack users of changes to their resources.

## Usage
```
$ cloudkeeper -v --collector slack --slack-bot-token xoxb-5178416381-911467024217-ro2VfEDEMlsAqUtgPoxEPUwW

OR

$ export SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-5178416381-911467024217-ro2VfEDEMlsAqUtgPoxEPUwW
$ cloudkeeper -v --collector slack
```

Provided Slack bot token must have permission to read the list of users, groups and channels as well as user email addresses.

The notification plugin looks for a tag `cloudkeeper:owner` on each resource. If the value of that tag starts with `slack:` or `email:` it will
try and find a corresponding Slack username or email and send that person the event log of their changed resources via Slack.

## List of arguments
```
  --slack-bot-token SLACK_BOT_TOKEN
                        Slack Bot Token (default env $SLACK_BOT_TOKEN)
```

Commit message:

cloudkeeper -> resoto (#537)
* ckcore -> resotocore

* github workflows for ckcore

* remove v1

* cklib -> resotolib
ckworker -> resotoworker
ckmetrics -> resotometrics
cksh -> resotosh
ckui -> resotoui

* ckoudkeeper->resoto

* fix resto resoto

* remove v1

* fix test

* More Cloudkeeper -> resoto changes

* Update docker Cloudkeeper -> resoto

* Update workflow for resotoshell

* black

* Update resh-shim

* Update resotoshell

* Update Dockerfile

* Update tests

* rename traces of Cloudkeeper -> resoto

* Small changes in the ui files for namechange.

* resotoui -> ui

* Rename Docker image

* Default graph ck -> resoto

* Update LFS filters

* Restore git LFS files

* Update Documentation

* Update resotoshell documentation

* resoto -> Resoto in docs

* Update date

* Fix capitalization/grammar errors in docs

* Fix release notes

Release notes authored before the rename should still refer to `Cloudkeeper`.

* Fix casing in a few more places

Co-authored-by: Lukas Lösche <lukas@some.engineering>
Co-authored-by: Raffaele Picca <picster@pixelgod.net>
Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

plugins/slack/README.md, after:

# resoto-plugin-slack
Slack collector and notification plugin for Resoto

This plugin consists of two plugins.
A collector plugin that collects Slack users, groups and channels and adds them to the Resoto graph for analysis and usage by other plugins.
As well as a notification plugin that at the end of a cleanup run will notify Slack users of changes to their resources.

## Usage
```
$ resoto -v --collector slack --slack-bot-token xoxb-5178416381-911467024217-ro2VfEDEMlsAqUtgPoxEPUwW

OR

$ export SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-5178416381-911467024217-ro2VfEDEMlsAqUtgPoxEPUwW
$ resoto -v --collector slack
```

Provided Slack bot token must have permission to read the list of users, groups and channels as well as user email addresses.

The notification plugin looks for a tag `resoto:owner` on each resource. If the value of that tag starts with `slack:` or `email:` it will
try and find a corresponding Slack username or email and send that person the event log of their changed resources via Slack.

## List of arguments
```
  --slack-bot-token SLACK_BOT_TOKEN
                        Slack Bot Token (default env $SLACK_BOT_TOKEN)
```
