plugins/onelogin/README.md, before:

# cloudkeeper-plugin-onelogin
OneLogin collector plugin for Cloudkeeper

This plugin collects OneLogin users as cloud resources and adds them to the Cloudkeeper graph for use by other plugins.

## Usage
Retrieve OneLogin API credentials and provide them to the plugin either as environment variables or commandline arguments.

### Example
```
$ cloudkeeper --collector onelogin \
    --onelogin-region us \
    --onelogin-client-id f63e68ac0bf052ae923c03f5b12aedc6cca49874c1c9b0ccf3f39b662d1f487b \
    --onelogin-client-secret 95fdbdf2fea4b306d059facf26c18d94cb190189a3221008eca14c5dd0b0fce1

OR

$ export ONELOGIN_CLIENT_REGION=us
$ export ONELOGIN_CLIENT_ID=f63e68ac0bf052ae923c03f5b12aedc6cca49874c1c9b0ccf3f39b662d1f487b
$ export ONELOGIN_CLIENT_SECRET=95fdbdf2fea4b306d059facf26c18d94cb190189a3221008eca14c5dd0b0fce1
$ cloudkeeper --collector onelogin
```

## List of arguments
```
  --onelogin-region ONELOGIN_REGION
                        OneLogin Region
  --onelogin-client-id ONELOGIN_CLIENT_ID
                        OneLogin Client ID
  --onelogin-client-secret ONELOGIN_CLIENT_SECRET
                        OneLogin Client Secret
```

Commit message:

cloudkeeper -> resoto (#537)
* ckcore -> resotocore

* github workflows for ckcore

* remove v1

* cklib -> resotolib
ckworker -> resotoworker
ckmetrics -> resotometrics
cksh -> resotosh
ckui -> resotoui

* ckoudkeeper->resoto

* fix resto resoto

* remove v1

* fix test

* More Cloudkeeper -> resoto changes

* Update docker Cloudkeeper -> resoto

* Update workflow for resotoshell

* black

* Update resh-shim

* Update resotoshell

* Update Dockerfile

* Update tests

* rename traces of Cloudkeeper -> resoto

* Small changes in the ui files for namechange.

* resotoui -> ui

* Rename Docker image

* Default graph ck -> resoto

* Update LFS filters

* Restore git LFS files

* Update Documentation

* Update resotoshell documentation

* resoto -> Resoto in docs

* Update date

* Fix capitalization/grammar errors in docs

* Fix release notes

Release notes authored before the rename should still refer to `Cloudkeeper`.

* Fix casing in a few more places

Co-authored-by: Lukas Lösche <lukas@some.engineering>
Co-authored-by: Raffaele Picca <picster@pixelgod.net>
Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

plugins/onelogin/README.md, after:

# resoto-plugin-onelogin
OneLogin collector plugin for Resoto

This plugin collects OneLogin users as cloud resources and adds them to the Resoto graph for use by other plugins.

## Usage
Retrieve OneLogin API credentials and provide them to the plugin either as environment variables or commandline arguments.

### Example
```
$ resoto --collector onelogin \
    --onelogin-region us \
    --onelogin-client-id f63e68ac0bf052ae923c03f5b12aedc6cca49874c1c9b0ccf3f39b662d1f487b \
    --onelogin-client-secret 95fdbdf2fea4b306d059facf26c18d94cb190189a3221008eca14c5dd0b0fce1

OR

$ export ONELOGIN_CLIENT_REGION=us
$ export ONELOGIN_CLIENT_ID=f63e68ac0bf052ae923c03f5b12aedc6cca49874c1c9b0ccf3f39b662d1f487b
$ export ONELOGIN_CLIENT_SECRET=95fdbdf2fea4b306d059facf26c18d94cb190189a3221008eca14c5dd0b0fce1
$ resoto --collector onelogin
```

## List of arguments
```
  --onelogin-region ONELOGIN_REGION
                        OneLogin Region
  --onelogin-client-id ONELOGIN_CLIENT_ID
                        OneLogin Client ID
  --onelogin-client-secret ONELOGIN_CLIENT_SECRET
                        OneLogin Client Secret
```
