resotocore/README.md, before:

# `resotocore`
Resoto core graph platform


## Table of contents

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Contact](#contact)
* [License](#license)


## Overview
The Resoto graph platfrom `resotocore` is the persistance and query backend of resoto. It maintains the graph
of resources and provides APIs to update and access them. Within `resotocore` there are workflows consisting of steps
that result in actions like `collect`, `cleanup` or `generate_metrics`. These actions are being received by components
like [`resotoworker`](../resotoworker/) and [`resotometrics`](../resotometrics/).

`resotocore` also provides the CLI API that [`resotosh`](../resotosh/) calls.


## Usage
```
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --log-level LOG_LEVEL
                        Log level (default: info)
  --graphdb-server GRAPHDB_SERVER
                        Graph database server (default: http://localhost:8529)
  --graphdb-database GRAPHDB_DATABASE
                        Graph database name (default: resoto)
  --graphdb-username GRAPHDB_USERNAME
                        Graph database login (default: resoto)
  --graphdb-password GRAPHDB_PASSWORD
                        Graph database password (default: "")
  --graphdb-type GRAPHDB_TYPE
                        Graph database type (default: arangodb)
  --graphdb-no-ssl-verify
                        If the connection should be verified (default: False)
  --graphdb-request-timeout GRAPHDB_REQUEST_TIMEOUT
                        Request timeout in seconds (default: 900)
  --psk PSK             Pre-shared key
  --host HOST [HOST ...]
                        TCP host(s) to bind on (default: 127.0.0.1)
  --port PORT           TCP port to bind on (default: 8900)
  --plantuml-server PLANTUML_SERVER
                        PlantUML server URI for UML image rendering (default: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml)
  --jobs [JOBS ...]
```


## Contact
If you have any questions feel free to [join our Discord](https://discord.gg/someengineering) or [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto/issues/new).


## License
```
Copyright 2022 Some Engineering Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

Commit message:

[resoto][docs] Update core args and link all component READMEs to the corresponding component docs (#779)

resotocore/README.md, after:

# `resotocore`
Resoto core graph platform


## Table of contents

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Contact](#contact)
* [License](#license)


## Overview
The Resoto graph platfrom `resotocore` is the persistance and search backend of resoto. It maintains the graph
of resources and provides APIs to update and access them. Within `resotocore` there are workflows consisting of steps
that result in actions like `collect`, `cleanup` or `generate_metrics`. These actions are being received by components
like [`resotoworker`](../resotoworker/) and [`resotometrics`](../resotometrics/).

`resotocore` also provides the CLI API that [`resotoshell`](../resotoshell/) calls.

More information can be found in [the docs](https://resoto.com/docs/concepts/components/core).


## Usage
```
  --psk PSK             Pre-shared key
  --graphdb-server GRAPHDB_SERVER
                        Graph database server (default: http://localhost:8529)
  --graphdb-database GRAPHDB_DATABASE
                        Graph database name (default: resoto)
  --graphdb-username GRAPHDB_USERNAME
                        Graph database login (default: resoto)
  --graphdb-password GRAPHDB_PASSWORD
                        Graph database password (default: "")
  --graphdb-root-password GRAPHDB_ROOT_PASSWORD
                        Graph root database password used for creating user and database if not existent.
  --graphdb-bootstrap-do-not-secure
                        Leave an empty root password during system setup process.
  --graphdb-type GRAPHDB_TYPE
                        Graph database type (default: arangodb)
  --graphdb-no-ssl-verify
                        If the connection should not be verified (default: False)
  --graphdb-request-timeout GRAPHDB_REQUEST_TIMEOUT
                        Request timeout in seconds (default: 900)
  --no-tls              Disable TLS and use plain HTTP.
  --cert CERT           Path to a single file in PEM format containing the host certificate. If no certificate is provided, it is created using the CA.
  --cert-key CERT_KEY   In case a --cert is provided. Path to a file containing the private key.
  --cert-key-pass CERT_KEY_PASS
                        In case a --cert is provided. Optional password to decrypt the private key file.
  --ca-cert CA_CERT     Path to a single file in PEM format containing the CA certificate.
  --ca-cert-key CA_CERT_KEY
                        Path to a file containing the private key for the CA certificate. New certificates can be created when a CA certificate and private key is provided. Without the private key, the
                        CA certificate is only used for outgoing http requests.
  --ca-cert-key-pass CA_CERT_KEY_PASS
                        Optional password to decrypt the private ca-cert-key file.
  --version             Print the version of resotocore and exit.
  --override CONFIG_OVERRIDE [CONFIG_OVERRIDE ...], -o CONFIG_OVERRIDE [CONFIG_OVERRIDE ...]
                        Override configuration parameters. Format: path.to.property=value. The existing configuration will be patched with the provided values. A value can be a simple value or a comma
                        separated list of values if a list is required. Note: this argument allows multiple overrides separated by space. Example: --override
                        resotocore.api.web_hosts=localhost,some.domain resotocore.api.web_port=12345
  --verbose, -v         Enable verbose logging.
  --debug               Enable debug mode. If not defined use configuration.
  --ui-path UI_PATH     Path to the UI files. If not defined use configuration..
```


## Contact
If you have any questions feel free to [join our Discord](https://discord.gg/someengineering) or [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto/issues/new).


## License
```
Copyright 2022 Some Engineering Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```
